The Joe Rogan experience.
Uh, uh, as breaking news just today, Marineland had built this fence.
Apely named Phil's fence around the park.
And just today we found out they blacked it all out with tarps because come, uh,
this Saturday, uh, May 18th, and certainly I'm inviting every,
everyone to come join me. Uh, I'll be joining as an, as a guest,
uh, a big demonstration outside of Marineland and we're gonna protest it, uh,
as they're, and as they're anticipating,
because on account of my coming on this show,
they worked very hard to try to keep me from a coming B speaking of anything,
C certainly not promoting this event. So I certainly hope that this event is a,
is a, is a well attended. How do they try to do that? Well,
because we're in litigation. What happens at,
in litigation is you come to a point where you start to negotiate
and so's things that they want from me.
There's things they really want from me. They want my silence.
The problem is they're never gonna silence me.
It's not an option. I've said it before. I'll say it again.
They can offer me a million dollars to shut up, go away.
It's not gonna happen. I'm not gonna delete my Twitter.
I'm not gonna any of my tweets that have the word Marineland in them.
Is this a request? These, this is layers and layers,
and there have been layers of requests. Basically.
They'd hope that I wouldn't come here.
They'd hope something could be worked out in our litigation. We have, uh,
so now I I've chased Marinelands.
So back when Marinelands all owner was still alive, uh,
I put forth a huge campaign to try to get him to be examined legally by my
lawyer, much like I've, uh, had to sort of submit myself to. Um,
but as these lawsuits and as,
as litigation continues to reveal itself as just the perfect method of abuse,
you know, that they're just the only result.
All of these things appear to serve is to exhaust
both parties and have them come together with a resolution.
So after six and a half years, uh, Marineland seems intent on a resolution.
They don't want to go to examinations. So while we were in,
so while I was there to be examined a couple weeks ago, my large said,
take a walk. And the two lawyers began their talks.
We put off the examination because we believed there could be some good faith
that could be shown between parties. Um,
it became quite evident that it was not the case.
And when we re were to resume our examinations,
which was to be last week Marine land on account to the fact that I was on this
show through an absolute tieade and said, we are not doing this now,
bear in mind, this is a court ordered examination date. I've got a, uh, a trial,
uh, coordinator who is trying to nudge this thing forward because I mean,
that's something that's a,
that's a motion I had to win in the litigation itself is to try to get someone,
to look at this thing so that it could actually move forward.
Like let's get someone to manage it. So we're, we're in case management.
So that case management judge has issued a very aggressive schedule.
It's in back in February, we had a court date of which thank you very much.
I won, uh, handed Lee. Marineland had to pick up, uh,
just a more than $12,000 of my legal bill,
which is really on this particular motion in this event, uh,
kind of a drop in the pan, but, um, nonetheless, a a, a,
a sound victory in court. Um, you know,
we have a case conference call next week. Now, I don't know where this,
because now Marineland has breached the court's order. So we went,
they didn't show up to the examination. I got, uh, a fourth, uh,
what's called a, um, certificate of non-attendance.
It means the person that was supposed to be examined, that they didn't show up.
Uh, marineland's owner John Holder, who's now passed away. Uh,
didn't show up to two of ex his examinations knowing full well that I'd have to
pick a up to 1700 bucks to co to just to be there, to get the certificate.
And he is just not gonna show up no big deal.
There doesn't seem to be any punitive damage at their end. They, they, I mean,
we're almost seven years into this thing and they're still like brutalizing me,
but we're at a point where they're actually in a very uncomfortable position of
having to keep this thing.
If you don't want this ation to be on the public record and transcripts and
evidence and everything you have to stop. It seems to me, the courts, uh,
appear to facilitate resolutions of that sort. They like settlements.
I was promised to trial on day one. It's what kept me going.
They're lying about me. They're lying about everything,
everything they're saying.
<affirmative> and they're trying to exhaust you financially. Well,
of course they are. I mean, that's so the,
the premises are you countersuing them as well?
I'm countersuing the premise of my countersuit is so that they couldn't merely
drop my, my, the lawsuit against me over a period of time.
And then that just be it. And that I would,
I would then have to actually file a motion to get some costs back.
I'd be lucky to get 50% and everything. Uh, in the,
the early days my lawyer said, let's Sue 'em back. And so we did,
I'm suing them for abuse of process. They're,
they're using the court's time resources. Uh, they, I mean,
even for that matter, we can extend that to the police and other, uh, you know,
uh, departments and organizations, uh, they're exhausting, uh, these things, uh,
in bad faith, they're doing it because they just want to try to, they basically,
they wanna take away my right to, uh, free expression,
which is a Canadian chartered, right? I mean,
I'm protecting my own history here. I mean, this is Insa.
I can't even believe that after six and a half years,
I'm still here at risk of being silenced. That the fact that, uh, I mean,
look full disclosure i'mowed money. The last time I was on this show, we raised,
I mean, and again, thank you so much, 60, maybe almost 70,000.
That's in a year and a half. That's gone. I spent my last penny last month.
It was a very aggressive, last three months.
Do you have a GoFundMe? I have a GoFundMe. Uh, do you out the information? Yes,
please. Um, what is it it's uh,
if you go to savesmoohi.com S a V E S M O O S H
i.com. You can go there. There's a small documentary. It's a little dated now,
but on account to the fact that legislation nothing's really moved forward in
the lawsuit and the legislation's only just wrapping up,
it's still very current. So please spend the 14 minutes to sort of, uh,
appreciate the story more. I guess you'll get a better, uh, more context to it.
There's, you know, some, some footage in there, some back, uh, backstage stuff,
some, you know, it, it tells the tale quite well. It's a, it's a,
it's a good piece. Yeah.
Folks, if you're, if you're hearing this, please help it out. If you can.
You know, joy, just say it all the time.
It's the thing I hate to do most is ask for help. I really makes me F.
Well, your intentions are pure. You know, you really are, uh,
a person who is going about this because you feel like you are uniquely
qualified to talk about it. You have the actual information, you know,
what's wrong. You, you, you know, and you are a part of the system,
you understand it better than anybody and the outside code.
And they have my walru and they have your.
WALS still.
We think. And so when, and so when in the litigation, my lawyer says,
well, here's what marineland's prepared to offer. I say to my lawyer, well,
what about the walru? And he says to me, dude, we talked about this.
This is crazy. You're not getting a Wallris. And
I said to Marine land, I don't want no money, not a penny.
I want the wallers. There's two left, uh,
three have died in the last it really in mere months, uh,
secretly I find out what would you do with her? I mean,
ideally what I would like is I just want her transferred at this point to
another facility. I would love to see her transferred to the Vancouver court,
or there's a facfacility in quebecca as well. I just want be a POS.
I just want to possibly be in her life if she needs me, which we, I mean,
there's a reason she's one of two still alive. Would I, if I would ACC listen,
would you move to Vancouver? If suddenly Dan billsariaan gets on the horns?
Just feel like at this? Uh, well, actually I, well, wait,
there's a backstory to that too. You got some beef with him inadvertently,
but we we'll get back to that. But you know, if he were to, to suddenly say,
Hey, I got this, uh, Arctic beachfront home and, uh, dude,
I'll buy you a Wal yeah, I'll move. Absolutely. I mean,
she's got another 10 years of her life. I do, you know,
there's only one way to Arctic.
To be with this walrus, play the music.
Is there a better end to this, to this story? I really, it all sounds so crazy,
Joe, but here's 66 and a half years ago. I was like, I want the WALS right.
Suddenly here I am negotiating for a walris call me crazy, but look at this.
So are they willing to negotiate for the walris?
Is this actually in consideration?
Yes. Yes. Not without layers and layers and layers of compromise of, and,
but bear in mind, not in the capacity that I see it more of a,
yeah, maybe, maybe we won't send her to China.
How's that maybe we'll send her somewhere and not deter that facility from, uh,
you visiting. Maybe we could do that for you. That's what I mean.
It's it's really bad faith negotiate.
The problem with the thing that I have a hard time dealing with is look,
we're in litigation in, you know, in,
in litigation you have to exercise a certain amount of decorum and it's not
exactly my strong point. It's just not,
I find decorum to be just a thick layer of. I just do. Yeah.
You of hope that there's gonna be some type of good faith negotiation. I, I,
I want that
Marineland negotiates with additional hostilities and threats.
It's not worked for them in six and a half years.
What makes you think it's gonna work now? So here,
I think we're going down a path of possibly good, uh, good faith negotiations.
The, the owner, the, the villain of the story is he's outta the picture. Uh,
the, the new president who is the, the widow, the wife is a wonderful woman.
I mean, listen, if I,
I honestly and truly believe if the lawyer himself wasn't the controlling mind
of the business now tr uh, he got sort of facilitating this transfer of, of,
of the business as it was to just being sold off, pieced off and, and, you know,
distribute the wealth to the, to the remaining family members.
I think that we could, I think this story ends on a good note. I mean,
I have no hostilities, you know,
I have every reason in the world to despise the man who sued me. And I don't,
I don't even think about him. It was never about that.
They made every case in the world,
every argument that this was personal between me and him and well that's cuz you
look in the camera and I you to people it's personal between me and donplet you
can bet your. That's a different story. <laugh> but you know what I'm saying?
Did I make 'em famous? Well, you <laugh> in a way maybe, maybe.
Um, so where do you stand right now? Well, I don't know.
So next week we're having a case management, uh,
the case manager's gonna tell and we're gonna see what becomes of Marinelands
once again, skipped examination. It's so hard to believe this is still going on,
dude. Welcome to my words.
From the time you first came on the podcast to now this has been just this
scratch and claw every day of my life.
I live with this looming cloud of, uh,
threat of like there's people out there that really want me,
I'm not talking physical threat. Okay. They, they did, they played their games.
You know, I called every one of their Bluffs every,
at every corner of this thing. But you know,
there's something about when you say they played their games? Well,
they sent goons to my house. Yeah. There's video.
In fact that there's on that documentary. You'll see these,
they send some tough guys. I mean, they were sending people at 6:00 AM,
harassing my girlfriend while she's taking the garbage out. I mean, it,
it really got pretty intense. Um, but we stood our ground. I was like,
this is not gonna go down like this. It's like, you're with the wrong guy, dude.
Like, listen, I come from a place called well end Ontario.
I don't know that you're familiar with it.
I'm gonna assume not probably few people are,
unless you're an avid hockey fan because we have produced some pretty, uh,
amazing, uh, NHL talent. But um, you know, this population of like 50,000,
I'm a wellender I don't know any other and I'm Frenchman. I mean,
it's probably another thing to stress,
but I don't know any other way to deal with things other than sort of fight it
out. You know, you don't COER and run you don't, you know, you stare the threat,
especially when you're on the right side of things.
I'm not gonna sit there and take. I'm not gonna,
it's not gonna work for them to continuously try to threaten me because dude I'm
invested and I'm not talking money.
I I'm mean a it's like a hostage situation. It's how it started.
My only interest is ending the hostage situation that not my only interest.
I shouldn't say that. Of course not. You know, I have interest in, in, in,
you know, I've been advocating for the, for bills and OB obviously advocating,
uh, letting people know the, you know, sort of taking the veil off the, uh,
that the industry produces feel.
Like you're negotiating for a hostage in mooshhi.
They're they're using her as that type of chip.
Yeah. That's their bar. That's their bargaining chip. That's what they got.
And they're keeping this constant pressure on you. This constant financi.
Add pressure threats, uh, constant, like my lawyer, in fact,
and this is where it gets kind of weird because listen, I don't understand.
He's supposed to be representing me. The answer is no to everything, fight,
fight, fight. I want a trial. He instead is coming with, listen,
this is not how litigation ends for, like,
you don't seem to understand how this ends.
You don't have a grip of how lit litigation works. And I'm just like,
I'm glad that I don't, because my guess is I representative of what?
90% of the population that don't know. And it's important that we find out,
I was promised a trial because they said, I was this, this, this, this, this,
well, let's get to that trial. This is what I've been doing.
This doesn't end with negotiations. I want the trial. Yeah. Yeah.
I don't understand like what, why would you Sue me unless you want the trial?
Oh, because it's a lawsuit. Well,
then I want the trial because I need to show that I need that on my record.
I want that. I want the truth. They at the wrong guy. <laugh> I hate to say it.
I'm the, only of all the lawsuits they've launched and they launched in, in,
you know, in excess of like 12 and threatened and,
and it's important to note I've been threatened and I'm constantly under threat
of additional litigation. I'm the only one left. I'm the only lawsuit.
That's, I'm the only person who hasn't had to co as, uh, their free expression.
It's.
Uh, it's a dirty secret about the legal business, right?
That this is a loophole. This is something people can do to people to silence.
'em just to drag them through hell for six years.
Maybe 10, who knows how long this goes, 10. Right. Who know?
And this is a case managed. I mean,
I had to fight in court at great expenditure to get this case management.
And if you put this up to the general public and have them look at what the
actual facts are and have them look at what these people,
what their business is, what they're actually doing,
it's game over it's game over. It's a real problem for them.
The real problem is it's an indefensible activity.
Having those animals in swimming pools for people's
enjoyment. Like.
But to follow that up with trying to crush people. Oh yeah.
Trying to crush my fiscal sovereignty. I mean, look, no, there's.
Nothing good on their side for what they tried to do to you for what the
business is. I about.
I operate in full, uh, sort of transparency because look, I'm,
I guess I'm sort of sponsored by the public. So I feel like a level of, uh,
transparency and all this, but, you know, I had a little bit of money.
I'd won a TV show called wipe out,
and I had 50,000 Canadian dollars tax free in the bank,
which I sat on because I didn't know per precisely what it is I was gonna do
with it. And I felt like there was a potential of a rainy day around the corner.
You know, it took that in the first six months to six months to,
to hire lawyers for everybody, everyone that was getting sued, I was cutting,
you know, $5,000 retainers for going, there's a purpose for this money.
I only have it because I got on the show because of my relationship with the
wall. So I'm in for a good chunk of change here.
Uh, it's crazy. The lengths of which,
and the ability corporations have to destroy individuals.
The fact that the court is there to facilitate it is precisely why I
want to go to trial. I've been told the F figures are,
and please don't quote me and I'd love the facts,
but I've been told that something in the area of like 90% of lawsuits get
settled without going to discovery. I wanna be,
I wanna be the 10% or less. I want, I want a resolution by the, by the judge.
I can sleep at night. If the judge says, okay, it ends with this, Phil, you get,
uh, $50,000 of your,
at this point in excess of 200,000 in legal bills.
And Marineland you lost. So, you know, you,
you gotta eat the shame and walk away.
I would assume be more comfortable with that than if Marineland said here's a
hundred thousand dollars. Don't talk about the, um, I mean,
let's say in the best scenario, they said, here's a chunk of chains. Let's,
let's just use a hundred thousand dollars and said, uh,
just don't talk about the terms of the settlement. But other than that,
you have no impeded speech. You can just be free.
I would be more comfortable with the judge's decision than that a hundred K
because then at least I know exactly what it is that I went through. I,
the world can find out what function these courts have and what their version of
justice is. I mean, I'm just,
I'm trying not to be jaded because obviously it's a heavy load to carry as in
your day to day. It's, uh, you know, I've been on the cusp of crazy. Um,
I'm thankful for plant medicine for sort of keeping me, uh,
grounded and keeping me in, uh, with the proper perspective, but plant medicine,
listen to you hippie <laugh>. Well, <laugh>
they do try call me hippie a lot too. That's interesting. I
meanpy a little bit of a, of a different version of hippie, I suppose. I mean,
yeah. I don't mind war <laugh>. Well, your, um,
your guy cares about these Marine mamals now Walworth is like my daughter, dude.
It sounds crazy, man. I believe stressed it, but it's just,
as soon as you consider that fact, you're just like, dude, that he's got,
they've got your daughter, that's a mess.
Just try to put yourself in a perspective that if they had your dog,
your neighbors got your dog and is, uh, is UN unmpededly, uh, uh,
by your definition abusing or neglecting their life.
And you're there to just watch silently. I mean, that's disgusting. Yeah.
That's a disgusting scenario. This is the poison that I live with. I,
I need, I need a proper closure.
I'm relying on there being a level of justice.
So that one day I can live in this world without being just that old
jaded dude. Look, last time I was here, I was not nearly as gray. Like
I'm starting to feel the effects of long term litigation. You don't.